Israel has categorically ruled out a
ceasefire in its war against Hamas prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu said it
would represent a surrender to the
militant group he said the ground
offensive was the best way to secure the
release of more hostages one Israeli
soldier was freed during an overnight
mission in Gaza the first such rescue
since the War
Began another Israeli hostage safely
home Israel's military released this
picture of soldier Ori ish to announce
her release a crowd gathered outside her
home to celebrate the news she's the
first captive to be freed amid Israel's
growing ground
offensive prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu praised the rescue and
rejected calls for a ceasefire Israel
will not agree to Association of
hostilities with Hamas after the
horrific attacks of October
7th calls for a ceasefire are calls for
Israel to Sur surrender to Hamas to
surrender to terrorism to surrender to
barbarism that will not
happen as Israel ramps up its fighting
the pressure to bring hostages home is
also growing hundreds of beds have been
laid out in Jerusalem to represent the
missing families gathered at the vigil
watch the latest video released by Hamas
militants showing three female
captives it's brought some hope to their
families when I saw the photo of
Danielle on TV my heart almost
stopped my wife and I were on the one
hand
shocked but on the other hand we felt
relief relief that she's
alive and that we can see
her we didn't know anything about her
until
today
but other families have received
devastating news authorities say German
Israeli shiny luk who was believed to be
kidnapped is dead the news has given her
mother a sense of
closure I'm a bit relieved that the
matter is closed the news is not good
but at least we know she didn't
suffer more than 200 people are believed
to still be held hostage by Hamas in
Gaza DW correspondent Tanya Kramer is in
ashdot in southern Israel I asked her
how Israelis are reacting to their prime
minister rejecting any possibility of a
ceasefire with
Hamas well yeah we just heard it there
he says it's not a time for a ceasefire
but it's time for war and I think this
is very concerning for many of the
relatives and the families of the
hostages because you know they are
fearing that by going deeper inside Gaza
by widening this uh ground operation and
incursion uh that uh we are seeing uh um
they might harm uh the life the lives of
their loved ones and their relatives now
um the government of course is trying to
prove here there was a a soldier that
was rescued uh Monday night during the
course of Monday and uh you know that
means that the we don't know many
details about how this played out but uh
this shows somehow from the government
side that they can do both on the one
hand eliminate the capabilities
infrastructure eradicate Hamas as they
say on the other hand trying to get the
hostages out but I think for families
still you know by seeing that um some of
the hostages might I mean they beli to
be maybe in some of the tunnel systems
that they believ to be held in different
groups in different areas maybe we don't
know of course for sure where they are
uh that they could be at the end
Collateral Damage by by see seeing what
you know the the the fire power that is
coming down on Gaza right now so their
main concern is certainly to look at you
know the negotiations and to hope that
there will be some kind of breakthrough
uh uh while Qatar and Egypt have been
helping with those indirect
negotiations that was DW's Tanya Kramer
there speaking to me a short while ago
from asot in southern Israel well as
Israeli tanks and troops Advance on Gaza
City there have been reports of fierce
CL es in the northern part of the strip
Israel's military says it has struck
more than 600 militant Targets in recent
days in Gaza the UN is warning that
Israeli shelling and air strikes are
getting closer to hospitals where
thousands of Palestinians are Sheltering
the Hamas ran Gaza Health Ministry says
more than
8,300 people have been killed so far
meanwhile Hamas is also launched Rockets
into Southern Israel causing fires
there
let's bring in Frank ledwich here he's a
senior lecturer in strategic studies at
Portsmouth University and a former UK
Military Intelligence officer he joins
us from Oxford Frank you said at the
beginning of this war that Israel did
not appear to have a clear strategy for
their military campaign now three weeks
into it has that strategy become any
clearer well good morning Terry the
answer I'm afraid is no and this is
causing worries amongst Israel's friends
not the United States and indeed within
the government itself the only thing we
know is that Israel has said it will uh
no longer have responsibility for Gaza
now there's a number of meanings
embedded in
that look plans are being knocked around
in the Israeli government for example to
resettle or to move some of the gazen
population to Egypt that comes from
Ministry of intelligence that's a
nonstarter that'll never happen but I
think more seriously negotiations are
going on with the Palestinian Authority
hoping that Arab world will sometimes
will somehow get involved
no sign of that so we're still at an
early stage us are very concerned about
it they've embedded us senior US
military staff within the planning cells
to ensure that at least some
consideration is given to setting the
the conditions for such a a longterm
strategy in the operations now but the
answer is essentially no there is no
apparent strategy end state or political
track
here well one success has come through
uh for Israel in terms of hostage is
it's at least managed to free one
soldier that was taken hostage how did
they manage to find an extractor Frank
do we have any
idea with respect to the soldier concern
we don't have any clue at all how this
particular uh young woman was rescued
however I think we can uh bet fair that
there'll be many more like it and the
reason for that is that Israel despite
its intelligence disaster of three weeks
ago has a really first class uh
intelligence structure and much of it is
based in Gaza
itself for example there are Elite teams
they're called in in Hebrew uh Cherry D
dvan I think who are in civilian clothes
and uh they will assist in targeting but
also their primary intelligence
requirement the main thing they have to
do will be to discover and if possible
set the stage to rescue hostages Israel
will have a presence on the ground so
much of the bombing that we see for
example just to move move across
slightly to illustrate looks like it's
indiscriminate probably
isn't much of it will be targeted by
these
teams so it's highly likely they would
have been involved in finding this
hostage highly likely but right
overlaying that of course is Israel's
huge signals intelligence capability
listening to the comms of Hamas and of
course their fantastic air and satellite
reconnaissance systems as for extraction
I suspect it was buy an armored vehicle
in one of the probes Israelis did but we
don't
know now of course all this started
Frank when Hamas launched its attack on
Israel on October 7th killing at least
1,400 people and kidnapping hundreds
Israel responded by sealing off Gaza and
has been bombarding it relent
relentlessly since then with thousands
of deaths reported the UN says Israel's
response is disproportionate do you
agree
Frank I think it's important to
understand the the the meaning of
proportionality in international
humanitarian law and I say this
neutrally the proportionality does not
relate to the incident three weeks ago
in other words we can't be counting
bodies and Counting the dead that's not
what proportionality is and weighing one
against the other proportionality in
this context is quite straightforward it
relates to the mission of any particular
strike if for example we have a mission
to uh to kill a Hamas senior officer we
will assess whether the mission despite
its collat natural damage is which is to
say the killings that's what it is
killings and injuries and terrible
calling uh Horrors for civilians whether
that outweighs the benefit done by the
strike now I think in many cases that
might be questionable but that's the
that's what proportionality means it's
weighing the Damage Done against the
benef the operational benefit here and
uh I think time will tell as to whether
as to whether those decisions would be
considered appropriate I think it is
worth saying In fairness to everybody
that Israel has
um let's say loosened its Rules of
Engagement so that calculation uh May
favor more the military objective rather
than the civilians who will be killed
that proportionality in this context has
to be understood as having nothing to do
with body
counts well the United Nations is
warning that Israel's uh Israeli
shelling and air strikes are getting
closer to hospitals where thousands of
Palestinians are
Sheltering video reporting to show the
moments after an Israeli rocket attack
near Al's Hospital in central
Gaza the Palestinian red cant says
Israeli bombardments are coming ever
closer to the hospital the humanitarian
group estimates 14,000 people are
Sheltering here in addition to the
patience they are refusing Israel's
orders to
evacuate we don't have the means to
evacuate Al's hospital we have over 400
p patients who are inside the hospital
many of them are in the Intensive Care
Unit evacuating them means killing them
that's why we refuse the evacuation
order we call on the International
Community to intervene immediately to
stop a humanitarian catastrophe that is
unfolding Israel accuses Hamas militants
of using hospitals as command
[Music]
centers and shows no sign of pausing its
pounding over the territory as its
troops on the ground Advance deeper into
Gaza Israel has vowed to dismantle Hamas
after its unprecedented Terror attacks
in Israel weeks
ago in coordinated attacks by ground and
Air Forces Fighters killed dozens of
militants in Gaza who had barricaded
themselves inside buildings and tried to
attack our forces that were moving in
their
Direction the humanitarian situation in
Gaza remains desperate as Israel enters
what it calls the second stage of its
war with Hamas thousands looted an aid
Warehouse on the weekend a sign the
United Nations says that civil order is
breaking
down Israel has rejected appeals for a
humanitarian pause the international
criminal court has warned that impeding
Aid May constitute a
crime and I want to underline clearly to
Israel that there must be discernable
efforts without further delay to make
sure civilians receive basic food
medicine
anesthetics
morphe we hear
reports of operations taking place
without these
basic medicines as if we're in the
Middle
Ages but despite all the international
rhetoric little is changing for ordinary
gazin with many now deciding to stay put
leaving their lives to
fate the dire situation facing the
people of Gaza and particularly children
has been laid bare at an emergency
meeting of the UN Security Council the
head of the United Nations Children's
Fund UNICEF Katherine Russell said more
than 400 children are being killed or
injured in Gaza every day claiming that
number should shake each of us to our
core the UN security council meeting was
also told that more than
3,400 children have been killed in 3
weeks of
fighting well Toby fricker is a
spokesperson for the United Nations
Children's Fund UNICEF I spoke to him
earlier and asked him whether the
extraordinary numbers being reported for
children killed and injured in Gaza are
reliable
yeah you're right the numbers of
children killed the numbers of children
injured inside the Gaza Strip are are
extraordinary now these numbers come
from the Palestinian uh Ministry of
Health um and UNICEF also has our own
you know sources on the ground we have
staff on the ground Partners on the
ground uh to to look into the numbers as
we always do um and I just say that in
in past like in 2014 for example when
there was an escalation uh the UN then
verifies numbers you know we can't do
that in real time of course for obvious
reasons but we verify numbers and when
we've done that before in similar
situations not at this scale uh the
numbers have been very very
similar is it
possible uh to provide any safety for
children in Gaza given the conditions
that uh are are are operating there the
there's it's a war zone with constant
bombardment and a ground Invasion how do
you provide safety for children in that
are
yeah I mean let me say and UNICEF has
been saying that there is no safe place
for for children in the Gaza Strip right
now uh anyone who's been there or anyone
who knows the Gaza Strip is a tiny area
of land you know and when you have
hostilities in such a densely populated
area where there are more than 1 million
uh children of course it's not safe
anywhere um and that continues to be a
massive concern we continue to see these
numbers rising of children being killed
and injured you know and and that's the
the massive concern that it's not
stopping um and that's why we keep
calling for this immediate humanitarian
ceasefire but but as of the situation
now there is no safe place for children
inside the Gaza
Strip as you know Toby uh Philip
lazarini the commissioner general for
the UN relief and works agency uh unra
has accused Israel of collective
punishment of the people of Gaza he says
that the current Aid System is geared to
fail are you in talks with the Israeli
government Toby regarding humanitarian
issues in Gaza and how how the
humanitarian conditions can be
improved yeah I mean the UN has a system
in place where we have uh connections
where we talk to all parties to a
conflict and that's very much focused uh
first of all on stopping the violence
saving lives but also on on humanitarian
access you know and what's absolutely
critical now is that we open up access
points to the Gaza Strip uh to improve
to bring up that life-saving supplies
into into the into the area and then
that's really an absolute priority
because there are some supplies going
but it's absolutely tiny amount given
the massive massive needs and what we're
talking about now is a lack of Safe
Water people who can't get Safe Water
children who are drinking salty water
who have got dehydration who've got
diarrhea uh so these waterbor diseases
are becom becoming a real reality and
you also have families children
civilians living in very densely
populated shelters uh that unra schools
unra you know even in in hospital areas
um and that's a massive risk for the
outbreak of
disease the Israeli military says it's
killed a senior Hamas Commander
responsible for the October 7th
terrorist attacks the Israel Defense
Forces released footage which appeared
to show an air strike on what they
believe is Hamas terrorist Nasim Abu aen
this comes as Israel continues with its
Grand defensive in Gaza the military
says it has struck more than 600
militant Targets in recent days and IDF
spokesperson gave this update on the
military
incursion overnight forces continue to
fight and advance in the ground
operation in
Gaza in coordinated LED air attacks they
killed terrorists and contined to attack
hundreds of targets of the murderous
Kamas
organization DW correspondent Ben fulan
is in Jerusalem and he told us more
about the latest Israeli attacks inside
Gaza well the information we're getting
um here the media from Hamas is that
they've targeted tanks in the north that
they've been clashes with Israeli troops
in the South and the indications from
Israeli uh forces is that uh they're
also attacking from both sides uh most
interestingly is that they say they've
penetrated some of these tunnels this
vast tunnel network of Hamas and managed
to destroy uh rocket launch pads uh in
shafts also control centers within those
tunnels and have attacked Hamas forces
and troops uh within those tunnels uh
sealing off access points as well
remembering though that the hostages are
said to be in these tunnels Pablo Ben
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has rejected calls for a
ceasefire so what's the reaction been to
this among
Israelis well his announcement came in a
briefing to the international media and
his rhetoric uh was tone down in
comparison to other press conferences
he's been hel holding here over the past
weeks um he stopped short again of
calling this an invasion there's a
global outcry at the moment as you know
um but he's not going to send in all
troops at once uh that would be a death
trap considering this intricate tunnel
system that uh hamus could use to Ambush
the troops the families of the hostages
don't want to see any ground or air
offensive uh but if they do see results
and if it means just one by one only one
hostage having been rescued so far
according to the information we have
then that would be a positive thing of
course there are over 200 hostages in a
hall being held by Hamas now some
experts say that Israel's ground
operation is is advancing slower than
expected what's behind
this well they're saying inch by inch
that's what uh military strategists are
saying uh first of all to uh ensure
there's no Ambush no surprise attacks uh
by Hamas also to keep open the
possibility of negotiations for the
release of these hostages uh those
negotiations are said to still be
underway uh with the mediator c um
we'll see as far as whether or not uh
there are results Netanyahu says this is
going to be a long War he said that time
and again and is
refusing uh a ceasefire he says a
ceasefire as you also pointed out would
only be giving up only be surrendering
to Hamas and would take the pressure of
Hamas uh to release the hostages it
would mean Hamas would only hold on to
those hostages in those tunnels that
they have now more on the situation on
the ground in Gaza as we've heard the
Israeli military is pushing ahead with
its offensive in the north and stepping
up Round the Clock air strikes on the
territory the hamon health Ministry says
more than 8,000 people have been killed
the head of the UN children's agency
says the number of casualties is too
high to be collateral
damage gazans go through another night
of explosions Israeli air strikes have
been tar targeting the strip for weeks
they say they're hitting Hamas militants
and their infrastructure inside the
territory as the death do mounts the
Hamas run Health Ministry claims that
over 8,300 people have died in Gaza
since Israeli bombing began many have
lost entire
families one of my men we don't have
anything nothing he was just going out
to find gas because we don't have any at
home he was also looking for bread for
the children and gas then they told me
he was
martyred this is now a daily reality for
the people of Gaza people clawing to get
others out from under the
rubble many of those stuck are
children on Monday the UN Security
Council held an emergency meeting to
discuss the Gaza crisis with Aid
agencies focusing on the young
casualties of this war nearly 70% of
those reported killed are children and
woman save the children reported
yesterday that nearly 3,200 children
were killed in Gaza in just three weeks
this surpasses the number of children
killed annually across the world's
conflict zones since
2019 this cannot be collateral damage
there also came this call for children
to be better protected on behalf of all
the children caught in this nightmare we
call on the World to do better whether
they are young people attending a music
festival or children going about their
daily lives in Gaza they all deserve
peace children do not start conflicts
and they are powerless to stop them to
add to the suffering essential supplies
are running dangerously low food water
fuel and medicines are all hard to find
humanitarian workers say the aid
reaching Gaza is far too little for
residents with one UN agency in Gaza
claiming an urgencies fire is now a life
or death matter for millions of
Palestinians journalist ham baloa is in
Gaza and we asked him earlier about how
many people are still left in the
evacuation Zone in the northern part of
the
territory there are many civilians
living there they are um a huge number
uh honor wise talking about 600 or even
U 600 100,000 and even a bit more um
this place to the South part where some
including myself and my family that we
are staying at wom's houses that we are
talking about like one about 1 million
people displaced from North and down the
city some of them they are displaced
from the border areas into the city or
the center of the city whether in indp
or the other city I know personally and
I communicate with some people they are
still there for many reasons one one of
them like they have no uh place to go in
the sou or the circum and misery life
that they experienced and that they been
back to go to the
north